IMB-106, 108 Set up directory structure and connect to DB (#3)
UKHomeOffice/hof-lookup-replacer: README.md

# hof-lookup-replacer

A Node.js script for replacing db lookup tables as a scheduled job configurable to different HOF form services.

The script retrieves a CSV formatted file from a given location, validates against given rules and then replaces a lookup table using the CSV rows. On success or failure the script will send appropriate notification messages.

This service uses either [pg-promise](https://vitaly-t.github.io/pg-promise/index.html) or [knex.js](https://knexjs.org/) to handle db connection and query building. You can configure the client and model used using environment variables.

## Script steps

1. Scheduled job runs with service specific environment.

> 2. Connect to database and retrieve the latest uploaded data's S3/file-vault URL from an SQL database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Connect to database and retrieve the latest uploaded S3 object/file-vault URL from an SQL database.
```
is that what you mean?

Reviewer 2: Not exactly in that we won't automatically fail the job for a few invalid rows in the whole batch, have updated this line to try to make more sense anyway.

Reviewer: Hi I still don't understand the sentence.  I would just remove the s3 bit and write, the latest filevault url if that's what you mean.  I thought grammatically it should be a SQL db but I've looked online and apparently an SQL is accepted too.  It doesn't make sense to me because S is not a vowel 🤷‍♂️

Reviewer 2: I've updated this one as you suggest - I think to be proper it should be 'a SQL' so have updated...I can see why both are accepted though - 'an SQL' is a bit easier to say :)

> 3. Authenticate with the service's file-vault.

Reviewer: Do you mean authenticate with keycloak?

4. Use the data URL to bring the CSV file data into the application.
5. Validate the CSV rows against rules given for the service. Log, note and remove erroring rows.
6. Replace the SQL db's lookup table with the validated rows from CSV.

> 7. Prepare a and send a notification email of pass or fail including erroring rows noted in validation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Prepare and send a notification email. Confirm a success or failure of the job. If it fails include the rows that have failed.
```
Would the above be a bit more clearer?

Reviewer 2: Not exactly in that we won't automatically fail the job for a few invalid rows in the whole batch, have updated this line anyway to try to be more clear

Reviewer: I would probably just reword the sentence to be a bit more clear.  I prefer success or fail.  Pass can mean pass as in football but if you like this
```Prepare and send a notification email. This will provide a pass or fail including erroring rows.```

8. Close connection. Job complete.

## Configuration

The `config.js` file turns most of the service's environment variables into an exported object that can be referred to throughout the app. Some defaults are configured here.

### Database

> hof-lookup-replacer aims to be database agnostic - the main script should run given different database models. The model chosen can be configured by the `DB_MODEL` environment variable being one of the filenames of the models provided (e.g. `DB_MODEL=knex-postgres-model`). The default is pgp-model which uses pg-promise.

Reviewer: why pg-promise?

Reviewer 2: Defaults are no longer set so this line is removed and pg-promise is no longer a default. pg-promise is reportedly a more efficient tool to do batch inserts if knex performs slowly.

Reviewer: nice one

* Node.js (18.19.0 or above 18 LTS)
* PostgreSQL (14 or above)
* Global yarn (`npm install --global yarn`)
* This repository cloned to your local machine
* Environment variables set in a `.env` file as below

### Environment variables

```bash
SERVICE_NAME # Shortname for the service to configure validations etc
TARGET_TABLE # Target lookup table name to be replaced
SOURCE_FILE_TABLE # DB table name where this service can get the CSV file's URL from
KEYCLOAK_SECRET # Keycloak secrets to authenticate for retrieval from S3 (assuming this is the CSV's persistent location)
KEYCLOAK_CLIENT_ID
KEYCLOAK_USERNAME
KEYCLOAK_PASSWORD
KEYCLOAK_TOKEN_URL
CASEWORKER_EMAIL # Email address to send pass/fail notifications to
NOTIFY_KEY # API key for a GovUK Notify service
NOTIFY_TEMPLATE_KEYS # References for specific GovUK Notify templates you would want to send e.g. pass/fail cases
SNYK_TOKEN # Optional if you want to run scans on node modules locally
DB_CLIENT # Defaults to pgp (using the pg-promise library). Set this value if you want to use a different client from /db e.g. knex
DB_MODEL # Defaults to pgp-model. Set this value to use a different database model e.g. knex-postgres-model.

> ```

Reviewer: Do you need all of this to run locally?

Reviewer 2: Have removed some things from this section that are unlikely to be needed for local work (SNYK_TOKEN for example).

Reviewer 2: Otherwise you will need to set something for all of these to run the entire script locally
